README.md, before:

# Data-Analysis-Project

## Project Description:

End-to-End E-commerce Product - An end-to-end data analysis project analyzing e-commerce products using data from the Fake Store API.
The project demonstrates skills in data extraction, cleaning, visualization, and storage using modern data tools

## Dataset

Source: https://fakestoreapi.com/products

Type: JSON REST API (20 sample e-commerce products)

## 🛠 Tools Use and Libraries

Tableau

MySQL

Google Colab (Python environment)

Python 3

Pandas (for data handling)

Matplotlib and Seaborn (for visualizations)

## ✈ How to Run (Google Colab)


1. Open the project in GitHub.
   
2. Click on the notebook in the `notebooks/` folder and go to `Data_pipeline_project.ipynb`.
   
3. Click the **"Open in Colab"** button at the top of the notebook (or use the link below).

Open in Colab:

https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1DRBp7CkKFnQ6BX1-mJrj78-KRvo-fO4Q?authuser=0#scrollTo=923-WAo_kSBY

## 📟 Visualization

<img width="999" height="799" alt="Dashboard 1" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ed408f5f-bbcb-4771-ba29-105bb08b09e6" />

## 📚 Learnings

Extracting column on pandas and separate those columns

Save the data on my google drive using pandas


## 😥 Challenges

Cleaning the data

Fixing the encoding error on MySQL for importing data as csv

Commit message:

Update README with Requests and Tableau information
Added Requests library for API handling and included Tableau tool for visualizations with key insights.

README.md, after:

# Data-Analysis-Project

## Project Description:

End-to-End E-commerce Product - An end-to-end data analysis project analyzing e-commerce products using data from the Fake Store API.
The project demonstrates skills in data extraction, cleaning, visualization, and storage using modern data tools

## Dataset

Source: https://fakestoreapi.com/products

Type: JSON REST API (20 sample e-commerce products)

## 🛠 Tools Use and Libraries

Tableau

MySQL

Google Colab (Python environment)

Python 3

Pandas (for data handling)

Matplotlib and Seaborn (for visualizations)

Requests (for API handling)

## ✈ How to Run (Google Colab)


1. Open the project in GitHub.
   
2. Click on the notebook in the `notebooks/` folder and go to `Data_pipeline_project.ipynb`.
   
3. Click the **"Open in Colab"** button at the top of the notebook (or use the link below).

Open in Colab:

https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1DRBp7CkKFnQ6BX1-mJrj78-KRvo-fO4Q?authuser=0#scrollTo=923-WAo_kSBY

## 📟 Visualization

Tool: Tableau - https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/layola.bera/viz/End-to-EndE-commerceProduct/Dashboard1#1

Key Insights:

Price distribution by category

Relationship between price and number of ratings

Top-rated products

<img width="999" height="799" alt="Dashboard 1" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ed408f5f-bbcb-4771-ba29-105bb08b09e6" />

## 📚 Learnings

Extracting column on pandas and separate those columns

Save the data on my google drive using pandas


## 😥 Challenges

Cleaning the data

Fixing the encoding error on MySQL for importing data as csv
